Blog - 10 Advanced Git Commands (#375)
earthly/website: blog/_posts/2023-04-25-advanced-git-commands.md

Another thing to remember is that using `git revert` does not truly erase the previous commit. Instead, it generates a new commit that undoes all of the modifications made in the previous commit. This is beneficial since it preserves the history of your repository.

You can also use this if you want to revert the latest commit:

~~~{.bash caption=">_"}
git revert HEAD
~~~

## Git Prune

[`git prune`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-prune) removes stale or dormant objects from a git repository. Stale object can be a branch or tag that is deleted, or a commit that is amended or rebased. In Git, a stale object becomes unreferenced and unreachable.

Git prune acts as a trash can for unused data in the git repository history. This function is an offspring of the garbage collection command and is not immediately executed. The git garbage collection command (`gc`) is in charge of keeping a repository alive. It clears out all the clutter in a repository and keeps it clean.

~~~{.bash caption=">_"}

git prune < --dry-run>| <-v> | <--progress> \
|<--expire <time> |<-- > |<head>…
~~~

> 
> - `--dry-run`: doesn't execute the prune but rather displays an output of what it will.
> - `-v (--verbose)`: displays the output of pruned data and actions.
> - `--progress`: Displays output indicating the prune's progress.
> - `--expire <time>`: specifies when the wasted objects will expire.
> - `<head>…`: Specifies the options that are referenced from the commit's head.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- `--dry-run`: doesn't execute the prune but rather lists what it will remove
- `-v (--verbose)`: displays the output of pruned data and actions
- `--progress`: displays output indicating the prune's progress
- `--expire <time>`: specifies when the wasted objects will expire
- `<head>…`: specifies the options that are referenced from the commit's head

```
